# Rossmann-stores-UK-sales-prediction-
Our project scope is to apply machine learning techniques to a real-world problem of predicting store sales. Germany’s largest store chain, has provided past sales information of 1115 stores located across Germany. We pre-processed, feature engineered the data, and examined 2 different machine learning algorithm for forecasting sales of store: Random Forest regression, and XGBoost. Then, we compared the method’s predictive power by computing Root Mean Square Percentage Error (RMSPE). We found that XGBoost model performed the best with a RMSPE score of 0.11 validation data set. Deployment has been done with Flask Web-App.

Main aim of this project is to predict sales for each 1115 stores daily and the data related to sales is available on Kaggle. The given features are mostly store related and there is only one column which is related to customer which shows the total customer visiting the store. The motivation of this project is the following: by reliably predicting daily sales, store managers may decrease operational costs, and create effective staff schedules (ex. by assigning more staffs during busy days). Also, we would like to identify which type of techniques are both efficient and effective in a real-world sales prediction task. Before building any regression or machine learning models for the prediction, we attempted to identify which features in the data might be significant to determine daily sales of stores, and investigate any interesting relationships between variables. Dependable sales forecasts empower store managers to make viable staff plans that expansion profitability and inspiration.
Machine learning models were used to analyse data and predict future sales or behaviour. The final prediction of sales is the amount. So, regression methods require a linear relationship between input feature and output feature, and may not mode sales prediction behave accurately. It is possible to capture these non-linear relationships with Random Forest and Gradient Boosting algorithms such as XGBoost
